Quick Installation	tic;\ndisp(''Installing scGEAToolbox...'')\nunzip(''https://github.com/jamesjcai/scGEAToolbox/archive/main.zip'');\naddpath(''./scGEAToolbox-main'');\ntoc;\nif exist(''scgeatool.m'',''file'')\n    disp(''scGEAToolbox installed!'')\nend\nsavepath(fullfile(userpath,''pathdef.m''));
SCORPION [PMID:38438786]	"Here we present SCORPION, a tool that uses a message-passing algorithm to reconstruct comparable gene regulatory networks from single-cell/nuclei RNA-sequencing data that are suitable for population-level comparisons by leveraging the same baseline priors."
DE in Batch Mode	This function iterates all cell types. For each cell type, DE analysis based on Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be performed to compare between two selected cell groups (e.g., WT and KO). The results will be saved in Excel files in a folder provided.
DP in Batch Mode	This function iterates all cell types. For each cell type, DP analysis will be performed to compare between two selected cell groups (e.g., WT and KO). The results will be saved in Excel files in a folder provided.
Geometric Sketching [PMID:31176620]	Large-scale single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) studies that profile hundreds of thousands of cells are becoming increasingly common, overwhelming existing analysis pipelines. Here, we describe how to enhance and accelerate single-cell data analysis by summarizing the transcriptomic heterogeneity within a dataset using a small subset of cells, which we refer to as a geometric sketch. Our sketches provide more comprehensive visualization of transcriptional diversity, capture rare cell types with high sensitivity, and reveal biological cell types via clustering.
MELD [PMID:33558698]	The goal of MELD is to identify populations of cells that are most affected by an experimental perturbation. Rather than clustering the data first and calculating differential abundance of samples within clusters, MELD provides a density estimate for each scRNA-seq sample for every cell in each dataset. Comparing the ratio between the density of each sample provides a quantitative estimate the effect of a perturbation at the single-cell level. We can then identify the cells most or least affected by the perturbation.
DecontX [PMID:32138770]	Droplet-based microfluidic devices have become widely used to perform single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). However, ambient RNA present in the cell suspension can be aberrantly counted along with a cell’s native mRNA and result in cross-contamination of transcripts between different cell populations. DecontX is a novel Bayesian method to estimate and remove contamination in individual cells. DecontX accurately predicts contamination levels in a mouse-human mixture dataset and removes aberrant expression of marker genes in PBMC datasets. We also compare the contamination levels between four different scRNA-seq protocols. Overall, DecontX can be incorporated into scRNA-seq workflows to improve downstream analyses.
Harmony [PMID:31740819]	The emerging diversity of single-cell RNA-seq datasets allows for the full transcriptional characterization of cell types across a wide variety of biological and clinical conditions. However, it is challenging to analyze them together, particularly when datasets are assayed with different technologies, because biological and technical differences are interspersed. We present Harmony, an algorithm that projects cells into a shared embedding in which cells group by cell type rather than dataset-specific conditions. Harmony simultaneously accounts for multiple experimental and biological factors.
Scrublet [PMID:30954476]	ScRNA-seq experiments generate 'multiplet' errors when  multiple cells are labeled with the same barcode. Wolock et al. describe Scrublet, a method for predicting the effects of multiplets on downstream analyses and identifying problematic multiplets.
scTenifoldNet [PMID:33336197]	We present scTenifoldNet-a machine learning workflow built upon principal-component regression, low-rank tensor approximation, and manifold alignment-for constructing and comparing single-cell gene regulatory networks (scGRNs) using data from single-cell RNA sequencing. scTenifoldNet reveals regulatory changes in gene expression between samples by comparing the constructed scGRNs. With real data, scTenifoldNet identifies specific gene expression programs associated with different biological processes, providing critical insights into the underlying mechanism of regulatory networks governing cellular transcriptional activities.
scTenifoldKnk [PMID:35510185]	Gene knockout (KO) experiments are a proven, powerful approach for studying gene function. However, systematic KO experiments targeting a large number of genes are usually prohibitive due to the limit of experimental and animal resources. Here, we present scTenifoldKnk, an efficient virtual KO tool that enables systematic KO investigation of gene function using data from single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). In scTenifoldKnk analysis, a gene regulatory network (GRN) is first constructed from scRNA-seq data of wild-type samples, and a target gene is then virtually deleted from the constructed GRN. Manifold alignment is used to align the resulting reduced GRN to the original GRN to identify differentially regulated genes, which are used to infer target gene functions in analyzed cells. We demonstrate that the scTenifoldKnk-based virtual KO analysis recapitulates the main findings of real-animal KO experiments and recovers the expected functions of genes in relevant cell types.
GenKI [PMID:37246643]	In this paper, we introduce Gene Knockout Inference (GenKI), a virtual knockout (KO) tool for gene function prediction using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data in the absence of KO samples when only wild-type (WT) samples are available. Without using any information from real KO samples, GenKI is designed to capture shifting patterns in gene regulation caused by the KO perturbation in an unsupervised manner and provide a robust and scalable framework for gene function studies. To achieve this goal, GenKI adapts a variational graph autoencoder (VGAE) model to learn latent representations of genes and interactions between genes from the input WT scRNA-seq data and a derived single-cell gene regulatory network (scGRN). The virtual KO data is then generated by computationally removing all edges of the KO gene-the gene to be knocked out for functional study-from the scGRN. The differences between WT and virtual KO data are discerned by using their corresponding latent parameters derived from the trained VGAE model. Our simulations show that GenKI accurately approximates the perturbation profiles upon gene KO and outperforms the state-of-the-art under a series of evaluation conditions. Using publicly available scRNA-seq data sets, we demonstrate that GenKI recapitulates discoveries of real-animal KO experiments and accurately predicts cell type-specific functions of KO genes. Thus, GenKI provides an in-silico alternative to KO experiments that may partially replace the need for genetically modified animals or other genetically perturbed systems.
scTenifoldXct [PMID:36787742]	We present scTenifoldXct, a semi-supervised computational tool for detecting ligand-receptor (LR)-mediated cell-cell interactions and mapping cellular communication graphs. Our method is based on manifold alignment, using LR pairs as inter-data correspondences to embed ligand and receptor genes expressed in interacting cells into a unified latent space. Neural networks are employed to minimize the distance between corresponding genes while preserving the structure of gene regression networks. We apply scTenifoldXct to real datasets for testing and demonstrate that our method detects interactions with high consistency compared with other methods. More importantly, scTenifoldXct uncovers weak but biologically relevant interactions overlooked by other methods. We also demonstrate how scTenifoldXct can be used to compare different samples, such as healthy vs. diseased and wild type vs. knockout, to identify differential interactions, thereby revealing functional implications associated with changes in cellular communication status.
GCL Analysis [PMID:33139959]	The GCL analysis measures the average multivariate dependency between expression levels of random gene subsets of single cells. To calculate the GCL, we first divide the genes into two random subsets. Then we measure the dependency level between the two subsets over a cohort of cells.
talklr [DOI:10.1101/2020.02.01.930602]	...we developed talklr, an information theory-based approach to uncover potential ligand-receptor interactions involved in tissue homeostasis and diseases. Compared to existing approaches that analyze changes in each gene in each cell type separately, talklr uses a holistic approach to simultaneously consider expression changes in both ligands and receptors across multiple cell types and conditions.
PanglaoDB [PMID:30951143]	The 'PanglaoDB' database of cell type markers was compiled by manual curation of thousands of published articles and abstracts, and by querying internet search engines ... To determine the cell type of a cell cluster, we perform the following steps: for every cell cluster k in a sample s, we iterate over all genes i=1...N and calculate the median expression per gene over normalized gene expresion measurements so that gene expression for a cell cluster is represented by a vector...
SnnDpc [DOI:10.1016/j.ins.2018.03.031]	In this paper, we improve the traditional DPC algorithm and propose a shared-nearest-neighbor-based clustering by fast search and find of density peaks, namely, SNN-DPC. SNN-DPC redefines the local density and distance from the nearest larger density point and introduces the shared neighbors and local density information between points; therefore, the newly defined ρ and δ can reflect the attributes of points more objectively and avoid the problem that the traditional DPC algorithm cannot effectively address variable-density clusters.
Differentiation Potency [PMID:33244588]	An important task in the analysis of single-cell RNA-Seq data is the estimation of differentiation potency, as this can help identify stem-or-multipotent cells in non-temporal studies or in tissues where differentiation hierarchies are not well established. ... Here, we present a single-cell potency measure, called Correlation of Connectome and Transcriptome (CCAT), which can return accurate single-cell potency estimates of a million cells in minutes, a 100-fold improvement over current state-of-the-art methods.
Predefined Cell Score	This function calculates the cellular score for the expression, also known as gene signature score, for a user-defined set of genes. The score is normalized using either the UCell method (default) or Seurat's AddModuleScore method. The UCell scores are normalized U statistics, and they are mathematically related to the Area under the ROC curve. These scores only depend on the gene expression ranks of individual cell, and therefore they are robust across datasets regardless of dataset composition. In contrast to Seurat's AddModuleScore is normalized by binning genes of similar expression at the population level.
HVG Functional Analysis [PMID:31861624]	This function applies to a homogeneous group of cells. Our results support the "variation is function" hypothesis, arguing that scEV is required for cell type-specific, higher-level system function. Thus, quantifying and characterizing scEV are of importance for our understating of normal and pathological cellular processes.
SPIA [PMID:18990722]	We describe a novel signaling pathway impact analysis (SPIA) that combines the evidence obtained from the classical enrichment analysis with a novel type of evidence, which measures the actual perturbation on a given pathway under a given condition.
DP Analysis	Differential Program (DP) Analysis aims to identify gene expression programs, involving multiple functionally related genes, expressed at varying levels between conditions. These differentially expressed programs can provide biological insights into the processes affected by the conditions of interest.
